
Although Canada is a large country, many areas are uninhabited, 
and most of the population lives near the southern border. 

The TransCanada Highway, completed in 1962, 
connects the people living in this strip of land, 
from St. John's in the East to Victoria in the West, 
a distance of 7 821 km.

Canadians like hockey. 
After a hockey game, thousands of fans get in their cars 
and drive home from the game, causing heavy congestion on the roads. 
A wealthy entrepreneur wants to buy a hockey team and build a new hockey arena. 
Your task is to help him select a location for the arena 
to minimize the traffic congestion after a hockey game.

The country is organized into cities connected by a network of roads. 
All roads are bidirectional, and there is exactly one route connecting any pair of cities. 

A route connecting the cities c0 and ck is a sequence of distinct cities c0, ..., ck 
such that there is a road from ci-1 to ci for each i. 

The new arena must be built in one of the cities, which we will call the arena city. 
After a hockey game, all of the hockey fans travel from the arena city 
to their home city, except those who already live in the arena city. 

The amount of congestion on each road is proportional to the number of hockey fans 
that travel along the road. 
You must locate the arena city such that the amount of congestion on the most congested road is as small as possible. 
If there are several equally good locations, you may choose any one.

You are to implement a procedure LocateCentre(N,P,S,D). 
N is a positive integer, the number of cities. 
  The cities are numbered from 0 to N-1. 

P is an array of N positive integers; 
  for each i, P[i] is the number of hockey fans living in the city numbered i. 
  
The total number of hockey fans in all the cities will be at most 2 000 000 000. 
S and D are arrays of N-1 integers each, specifying the locations of roads. 
For each i, there is a road connecting the two cities whose numbers are S[i] and D[i]. 
The procedure must return an integer, the number of the city that should be the arena city.

Example

As an example, consider the network of five cities in the top diagram on the right,
where cities 0, 1 and 2 contain 10 hockey fans each, 
and cities 3 and 4 contain 20 hockey fans each. 

The middle diagram shows the congestions when the new arena is in city 2, 
the worst congestion being 40 on the thicker arrow. 
The bottom diagram shows the congestions when the new arena is in city 3, 
the worst congestion being 30 on the thicker arrow. 

Therefore, city 3 would be a better location for the arena than city 2. 
The data for this example are in grader.in.3a.

Note 
We remind contestants that with the given constraints, 
it is possible to submit a solution that passes Subtask 3 and fails Subtask 2. 
However, remember that your final score 
for the entire task is determined by only one of your submissions.

Solution

This was (by intention) a fairly standard task. 
Though, it should be mentioned that graph problems always 
are a bit trickier than one might at first think 
because of the need to handle specific graph encodings.

The information provided below will be expanded in the future, 
but for now should help in understanding what each subtask 
was expecting in the form of algorithms.

Subtask 1: 
  Quadratic works. 
  Because of the highly regular (linear) structure of the network graph, 
  it is easy to try each city as location for the arena, 
  calculate the worst congestions and pick out the location 
  where this worst congestion is minimal.
  
Subtask 2: 
  Requires linear algorithm, 
  but because there are only two leaves and the graph representation is highly regular, 
  it is easy to see that one sweep over the cities along the roads 
  suffices to determine the optimum location.
  
Subtask 3: 
  Quadratic works, but now the general graph must be handled. 
  Again, as in Subtask 1, 
  every city can be tried as arena location, 
  the worst congestion can then be calculated, 
  and best location can be found.
  
Subtask 4: 
  This is the full problem. 
  A linear traversal of the graph, 
  accumulating congestion information appropriately, 
  enables one to determine the optimal location of the arena in linear time.

  
















